This is Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church, Llandudno, during the longest yarn.
And I'm speaking to Pat Ashworth, who lives currently in Duganwy, but was living in Llandudno during the war.
Hello, Pat.
Hello, Vicki.
So tell me your memories.
Well, my memories during the war, one vivid memory was being quite terrified when the Germans were bombing Liverpool
and after they dropped their bombs, they flew over Llandudno.
And during that time, they dropped a bomb on Nantegamma Mountain and then flew over Conway and out to sea.
And I remember we had double summertime then, so it was light till midnight.
And I can remember standing at the end of my bed, holding the bed frame and shaking because we could see all the lights on Liverpool from the bombs that were dropped by the Germans.
So Liverpool was a light and you could see the brightness from it.
Yes, yes. And then hearing the planes flying over was quite terrifying because I didn't know what they were going to do next.
And that's my biggest memory of the war really.
And of being really scared that you would be the next.
Especially Lantegamma was relatively close. I didn't know there was a bomb that dropped on Lantegamma.
Was anyone killed?
No, no, no. I don't know if the crate is still there.
I wonder whether it is. So you were quite young.
I think I was about nine or eight. I was at junior school.
Did you have a gas mask to go to school? Was that considered important in Llandudno?
We had gas masks. All school children had gas masks.
And of course the Ministry of Finance were here, weren't they, in Llandudno?
Yes.
So Llandudno must have been full of strangers. Did it feel as though your town had been taken over?
No, not particularly. My mother worked in the Income Tax Office at what was the hotel, the Marine Hotel.
Yes, all the hotels were taken over, weren't they?
Yes.
I know the Imperial was taken over.
And it was called the Boulevard recently, but I can't remember the name during the war, but the BBC were there.
And they broadcast all the ITMA programmes and the news.
There was a lot of help here in Llandudno for everybody.
So the Germans dropped the bomb on Nantegama presumably by accident, but perhaps if they'd known what was going on in Llandudno, they might have aimed them a bit more accurately.
Yes, but they dropped them to make their aircraft lighter to fly back to Germany.
So I know you were rationed. Did it feel uncomfortable? Did you feel hungry?
No, no, we didn't. We were rations.
And one thing I remember, I'd lost my sweet coupons and I couldn't find them anywhere.
And then that was the summertime. And I was in the brownies then. And then when I went, started with the brownies again in September, there was my sweet coupon in my brownie pocket.
And so you didn't have sweets that time? Because I remember after the war we had sweet coupons.
Yes.
But it wasn't a great hardship. There was always enough, wasn't there?
No, and my mother did all the cooking and we weren't short of food.
So was your father away in the services perhaps?
No, my father, he was in the Air Force in Carnarvon and he had an accident. So he was invalid out of the Air Force. So he didn't, he wasn't in good health.
So he was home during the war?
Yes, yes.
Oh, thank you very much. Have you got any other things that you think you might have remembered?
Oh, I remember walking home from school, which was Craigadon School.
And there would be a man walking around and he'd have a photograph in his hand and come up to you and say, show you the photograph and say, have you seen this man?
And that was terrifying because what was he looking for, you know, a spy? I don't know.
Did you ever find out what he was looking for?
No, no, no, but he's not quite a fuel of a school of children because there were no buses then.
We all walked home from school, walked to school and walked back at lunchtime home because no school meals.
The weather was bad. My mother would bring sandwiches for us.
And you never found the strange man they were looking for?
No.
Oh goodness. I wonder who he was.
I wonder. Never know.
Never know. No. Oh, thank you very much. I really enjoyed your memories. Thank you so much. I'm going to put it off now.